I am Julius Caesar, born in 100 BC in Rome,
Italy. I was politician and general of the
late Roman republic, I greatly extended the
Roman empire before seizing power and paving
the way for the imperial system.
I am from the prestigious Julian clan. My
family were closely connected with the Marian
faction in Roman politics. I progressed within
the Roman political system, becoming in succession
quaestor, aedile and praetor. In 60 BC, I
served as governor of the Roman province of
Spain. Back in Rome in 60, I made a pact with
Pompey and Crassus, who helped me to get elected
as consul for 59 BC. The following year I
was appointed governor of Roman Gaul where
I stayed for eight years, adding the whole
of modern France and Belgium to the Roman
empire, and making Rome safe from the possibility
of Gallic invasions. I made two expeditions
to Britain, in 55 BC and 54 BC.
I then returned to Italy, disregarding the
authority of the senate, and famously crossing
the Rubicon River without disbanding my army.
In the ensuing civil war, I defeated the republican
forces. Pompey, their leader, fled to Egypt
where he was assassinated. I followed him
and became romantically involved with the
Egyptian queen, Cleopatra.
I was now master of Rome. I used my power
to carry out much-needed reform, relieving
debt, enlarging the senate, building the Forum
Iulium and revising the calendar. Dictatorship
was always regarded a temporary position but
in 44 BC, I took it for life. My success and
ambition alienated strongly republican senators.
A group of these, led by Cassius and Brutus,
assassinated me in 44 BC. This sparked the
final round of civil wars that ended the Republic
and brought about the elevation of my great
nephew and designated heir, Octavian, as Augustus,
the first emperor.
I came to Rome when it was a city of stone
and left it a city of marble. I hope my passion
still live to this day in the hearts of people
of our vast empire.